Exoplanet Discovery and Analysis with AI Supervised Learning Methods
 The Goal: The goal of my final project was to use data obtained from Nasa’s Exoplanet archive from its 2009 Kepler Mission to predict whether, based on the statistics and information about the tracking and imagery of a star, the star contained any planet in its orbit, also known as “exoplanets” (a planet that orbits a star outside of our solar system). I used a Decision Tree classifier to determine whether or not a planet was an exoplanet and then also used Logistic Regression to calculate the probability of this determination. I also attempted to compare it to earth-like exoplanet in the dataset such as Kepler-1649 c1 and Kepler-452b2 using distance between points, to see whether or not other planets share similar attributes and if any research online can verify my findings.
The Kepler Mission:
The initial goal of the Kepler Mission was also to try to find other earth-like planets. The way the process worked was the Kepler space telescope (Launched in 2009) was used to record image data taken in very short intervals from thousands of bright stars in the Milky Way Galaxy. “When a planet passes in front of a star as viewed from Earth, the event is called a “transit”. Transits by terrestrial planets produce a small change in a star's brightness of about 1/10,000. Kepler finds planets by looking for tiny dips in the brightness of a star when a planet crosses in front of it”3
For example: The tiny dot is a planet passing in front of a star, not a smudge on your computer screen. (This is an artist illustration)
“After a change in brightness is detected attributes of the planet can be calculated such as “the planet's orbital size can be calculated from the period (how long it takes the planet to orbit once around the star) and the mass of the star using Kepler's Third Law of planetary motion. The size of the planet is found from the depth of the transit (how much the brightness of the star drops) and the size of the star. From the orbital size and the temperature of the star, the planet's characteristic temperature can be calculated.”4
